README.md, before:

# glacier-graphics

A collection of free glacier graphics that can be used for education and
outreach.


**License**: [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

<a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="CC-BY-SA License" style="border-width:0" src="https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />

Feel free to use / adapt the graphics, but always refer to the original author and share them with a compatible license.

## An introduction to glaciers

**Author**: Anne Maussion, [Atelier les Gros yeux](http://atelierlesgrosyeux.com/)

This series of graphics was designed for a talk given by
[Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/) to a general audience. He used
them to explain the concepts of accumulation, ablation, equilibrium line
altitude and mass movements in a glacier.

**Download**: [zip file](/glacier_intro/glacier_intro.zip), [gif](/glacier_intro/gif/glacier.gif)
(thanks to [Kevin Pluck](https://twitter.com/kevpluck) from [Pixel Movers & Makers](https://pixelmoversandmakers.com/) for generating the gif)

### Animation

![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/gif/glacier.gif)

### Single images with explanations

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_01.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_01.png)

The first image just sets the scene and allows to explain that we are now
looking at a typical mountain glacier from a cross-section along the main
ice flow.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_02.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_02.png)

We then announce that we are looking at the processes at the glacier surface
first. This helps to bring the focus to it first.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_03.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_03.png)

**Accumulation**: definition, which processes are at play, how you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that some snow flakes
now appears on the upper left corner!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_04.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_04.png)

**Ablation**: definition, which processes are at play, how you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that a sun
now appears on the upper right corner!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_05.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_05.png)

**Mass Balance**: definition, over which period you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that the formula is now
complete!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_06.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_06.png)

The imbalance between accumulation and ablation is
compensated by a **movement of ice** from top to bottom. If this is where you
want to bring your talk to, you can use the mass flux arrow to explain the
principles of ice thickness inversion using mass conservation principles.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_07.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_07.png)

Concept of **Equilibrium Line Altitude** (ELA).

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_08.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_08.png)

More accumulation and/or less ablation leads to a **decrease** of the ELA. You
might want to highlight the changes in surface mass budget as well as the
increased solid precipitation and/or the shaded sun.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_09.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_09.png)

This new imbalance increases the flux of ice through the glacier (hence the
wider arrow) and results in a glacier advance. See the response time section
below for a companion graphic.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_10.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_10.png)

Less accumulation and/or more ablation leads to an **increase** of the ELA. You
might want to highlight the changes in surface mass budget as well as the
decreased solid precipitation and/or the stronger sun.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_11.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_11.png)

This new imbalance decreases the flux of ice through the glacier (hence the
thinner arrow) and results in a glacier retreat. See the response time section
below for a companion graphic.

## Glaciers as a low-pass filter of climate

**Author**: Fabien Maussion with the [OGGM](http://oggm.org) model.

**Code**: [OGGM-edu](https://github.com/OGGM/oggm-edu)

**Download**: [zip file](/glacier_response/glacier_response.zip)

This series of graphics was used right after the graphics above to explain
the concepts of **response time** (or time constant) and **low-pass filter**.

Here again, there are several stages to click through (useful for presentations):

<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_01.png" alt="Tau 1" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_02.png" alt="Tau 2" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_03.png" alt="Tau 3" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_04.png" alt="Tau 4" width="50%">

Commit message:

added debris-covered glacier glaphic

README.md, after:

# glacier-graphics

A collection of free glacier graphics that can be used for education and
outreach.


**License**: [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

<a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/"><img alt="CC-BY-SA License" style="border-width:0" src="https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />

Feel free to use / adapt the graphics, but always refer to the original author and share them with a compatible license.

## An introduction to glaciers

**Author**: Anne Maussion, [Atelier les Gros yeux](http://atelierlesgrosyeux.com/)

This series of graphics was designed for a talk given by
[Fabien Maussion](https://fabienmaussion.info/) to a general audience. He used
them to explain the concepts of accumulation, ablation, equilibrium line
altitude and mass movements in a glacier.

**Download**: [zip file](/glacier_intro/glacier_intro.zip), [gif](/glacier_intro/gif/glacier.gif)
(thanks to [Kevin Pluck](https://twitter.com/kevpluck) from [Pixel Movers & Makers](https://pixelmoversandmakers.com/) for generating the gif)

### Animation

![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/gif/glacier.gif)

### Single images with explanations

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_01.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_01.png)

The first image just sets the scene and allows to explain that we are now
looking at a typical mountain glacier from a cross-section along the main
ice flow.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_02.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_02.png)

We then announce that we are looking at the processes at the glacier surface
first. This helps to bring the focus to it first.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_03.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_03.png)

**Accumulation**: definition, which processes are at play, how you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that some snow flakes
now appears on the upper left corner!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_04.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_04.png)

**Ablation**: definition, which processes are at play, how you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that a sun
now appears on the upper right corner!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_05.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_05.png)

**Mass Balance**: definition, over which period you measure it,
typical values...
The time you want to spend on it is up to you. Note that the formula is now
complete!

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_06.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_06.png)

The imbalance between accumulation and ablation is
compensated by a **movement of ice** from top to bottom. If this is where you
want to bring your talk to, you can use the mass flux arrow to explain the
principles of ice thickness inversion using mass conservation principles.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_07.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_07.png)

Concept of **Equilibrium Line Altitude** (ELA).

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_08.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_08.png)

More accumulation and/or less ablation leads to a **decrease** of the ELA. You
might want to highlight the changes in surface mass budget as well as the
increased solid precipitation and/or the shaded sun.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_09.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_09.png)

This new imbalance increases the flux of ice through the glacier (hence the
wider arrow) and results in a glacier advance. See the response time section
below for a companion graphic.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_10.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_10.png)

Less accumulation and/or more ablation leads to an **increase** of the ELA. You
might want to highlight the changes in surface mass budget as well as the
decreased solid precipitation and/or the stronger sun.

[![image unavailable](/glacier_intro/thumbnails/glacier_11.png)](/glacier_intro/png/glacier_11.png)

This new imbalance decreases the flux of ice through the glacier (hence the
thinner arrow) and results in a glacier retreat. See the response time section
below for a companion graphic.

## An introduction to debris-covered glaciers

**Author**: Lindsey Nicholson (adapted from Anne Maussion, [Atelier les Gros yeux](http://atelierlesgrosyeux.com/))

This graphic was designed for the paper from [Nicholson et al., 2021](https://doi.org/10.3389/feart.2021.662695).
It illustrates the processes of debris flux through a mountain glacier.

**Download**: [zip file](/glacier_debriscovered/glacier_debriscovered.zip)

### Image with english labels

[![image unavailable](/glacier_debriscovered/thumbnails/glacier_debriscovered_englishlabels.png)](/glacier_debriscovered/png/glacier_debriscovered_englishlabels.png)

Rock debris from the surrounding landscape is transported by glacier ice motion,
and some glaciers can develop into debris covered glaciers, with a layer of
rock rubble covering part of their ablation zone. This debris cover alters
the ablation rate of the glacier, and therefore its overall interaction with
a forcing climate.

### Image with no labels

[![image unavailable](/glacier_debriscovered/thumbnails/glacier_debriscovered_nolabels.png)](/glacier_debriscovered/png/glacier_debriscovered_nolabels.png)

## Glaciers as a low-pass filter of climate

**Author**: Fabien Maussion with the [OGGM](http://oggm.org) model.

**Code**: [OGGM-edu](https://github.com/OGGM/oggm-edu)

**Download**: [zip file](/glacier_response/glacier_response.zip)

This series of graphics was used right after the graphics above to explain
the concepts of **response time** (or time constant) and **low-pass filter**.

Here again, there are several stages to click through (useful for presentations):

<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_01.png" alt="Tau 1" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_02.png" alt="Tau 2" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_03.png" alt="Tau 3" width="50%">
<img src="/glacier_response/png/tau_04.png" alt="Tau 4" width="50%">
